mother board
   the computer is build up around a motherboard .the motherboard is the most important part of any computer .it's a large  
    printed circuit board (pcb) having many chips,ports , controlers and other electronic devices mounted on it.
  
introduction to motherboard 
   the motherboard or the system board is the main circuit board inside computer . every component inside the computer has 
   to communicate through the motherboard , either by directly plugging into it or by communicating through one of the 
   motherboard ports . the motherboard provides a platform for all the components and periperals to communicate with each
   other.
   the electronic components mounted  on a motherboard are processer,memory chips ,intrfaces , various ports and all 
   expansion cards .the mothrboard is the hub , rhich is used to connect all the necessary components of a computer .
   the RAM ,hard drive ,disk drives and optical drives are all plugged  into interfaces on the motherboard .
   the motherboard may be characterised by the form ,chipest and type of processor socket used.
  

1.form factor 
     refers to the motherboard's  geometry,dimensions, arrangement and electrical requirements.different stendards have been
     developed to build motherboards ,which can be used in different brands . advanced technology extented (ATX) is the most 
     common design of motherboard for desktop computers.
2.chipset:
    controls the majority of resourses of the computer .the funtyion of chipest is to cootdanate data transfer between 
    the varios  components of computer .as the chipset is integrated into the  motherboard .it is aimportant to choose a 
     motherboard which includes a recent chipset, in otder to maximize the computer's upgradeability .
3.processor socket:
    it's may be a rectanguklar connector into which the processor is ounted vertically ,or asqare shaped connector with
    many small connectors into which the procssor is directly inserted.